Hi, everyone.
I'm Jacob Xiao,
and I work on iOS Frameworks.
There are more and more applications
on the App Store these days,
and that makes it really hard for
your application to get noticed.
But one great way that you can
really make your application unique
is to customize its appearance.
Today, I'm going to tell you about some
general tips for how to get the
most out of customizing your
application and also some specifics on
customizing different UIKit controls.
We'll also have a special
guest speaker at the end.
But first,
I'd like to show you a demo application
that we'll be talking about today.
It's a simple application
for controlling a spaceship.
You can activate the power,
which shows an animated image,
and also deactivate it.
And while it's activating,
you can see a progress view as well.
You can also open and close the doors,
the front and back,
And also lock them.
And both of these are just
UI buttons with custom images.
You can also control
other systems on the ship.
And finally,
you can view and edit the ship's logs.
Including searching.
So as you can see,
our application works fine,
but it looks kind of plain.
It has all of the standard appearances,
so it doesn't really stick out.
So today, I'm going to show you how to go
from this standard appearance
to a much more customized look.
Now, those of you listening to the talk
today are probably in one of two groups,
either developers or designers.
If you're a developer,
then the code that we talk
about today will be directly
usable in your applications.
We'll also talk about
how to prepare artwork,
and that's information that
you should communicate to the
designers that you work with.
Now, those of you listening to the talk
today are probably in one of two groups,
either developers or designers.
If you're a developer,
then the code that we talk
about today will be directly
usable in your applications.
We'll also talk about
how to prepare artwork,
and that's information that
you should communicate to the
designers that you work with.
All right,
let's get started with some general
tips for customizing your application.
One of the most important parts
of a custom appearance in your
application is the artwork you use.
Generally, for all iOS artwork,
you'll want to use the ping image format.
And when you use ping images,
Xcode will also optimize all of
your images at build time for iOS.
You should also include 1X and 2X
Retina versions of all of your artwork.
The 2x versions should have an
@2x suffix in the file name and
should be exactly double the
pixel dimensions of the 1x images.
Then when you use these
images in your application,
you can just use UIImage, image named,
with a base file name,
just leaving off the extension.
If your application is universal,
you may have artwork that you want
to be different on iPhone and iPad.
And that's easy to do.
Just add a ~iPhone or ~iPad
suffix into your file name.
And for the 2x version,
notice that the tilde
suffix comes after the @2x.
Then,
when you use the same image named method,
you'll get the correct
version for iPhone and iPad.
Again, just leave off the extension
and the tilde iPhone/iPad.
Now let's say we were creating
a custom button like these.
Our first thought might be to
create artwork for these like this,
where the entire contents of
the buttons are in the artwork.
But this is not the best approach to use.
Instead, it's better to separate out the
foreground and the background.
In this case, the foreground would be the
star image or the tap text,
and the background would
be the green button image.
Now, doing this separation allows
you to reuse the same background
image on many different buttons.
And separating out the text from your
image allows for better localization
and accessibility for your applications.
Once we've separated out the image,
we can use a resizable image to draw it.
Resizable images are a common
technique on iOS that allows
you to draw a large image,
like this one, with a smaller image,
like this.
To do so, we just separate the
smaller image into regions.
In this case,
we would create a three-part
resizable image where the left and
the right are fixed and the center
region resizes as necessary for
the size that we're drawing at.
To create a resizable image, just use the
ResizableImageWithCapInsets method.
And this method allows you
to pass in a cap insets,
which indicate the size
to remove on the left,
right, or top or bottom.
And you can create these cap insets
with the UI EdgeInsetsMake function.
This allows you to pass in all of
the four dimensions that you want,
and then you can use this edge insets
to pass the resizable image with cap
insets method to an existing UI image.
And you'll get a new
UI image that's resizable.
The order of these arguments
is easy to remember.
Just start at the top
and go counterclockwise.
Top, left, bottom, right.
For horizontally resizable images,
just pass zero for the
top and bottom values.
But if you use all four values,
you'll get an image that's both
horizontally and vertically resizable,
like this one.
As you can see,
it's a nine-part resizable image with
fixed corners and a resizable center.
Now, when you create a resizable image,
there are two different ways that
the center part can be resized,
either by stretching or tiling.
So if we use this
example background image,
you'll see that it has
a textured appearance.
So if we were to use
stretching for the center part,
then the center looks kind of
blurry because it's just getting
stretched out to the necessary width.
On the other hand,
if we tiled the center region,
we'd get the correct textured
appearance across the entire center.
When you use the resizable
image with cap insets method,
we'll automatically choose tiling for
larger images and stretching if the
center region is just one point wide.
And this is because for
one point wide images,
stretching looks the same as tiling,
and if stretching always
has a better performance.
However, if you want to specify something
custom for your resizable image,
this is now possible in iOS 6.
You can use this new method,
resizable image with cap insets,
resizing mode,
to specify whether you want your
resizable image to stretch or tile.
However, note that this method is not
available in iOS 6 Seed 1,
but it will be in the next Seeds.
Many UIKit controls will change the
size of their end caps based on the
cap insets of their background images.
For example, if we use this background
image with these cap insets,
we'd get a control with
relatively small end caps.
However,
if we used a larger background image
with corresponding larger cap insets,
we'd get these larger margins.
So this allows you to change the
geometry of your control just by
changing its background image.
Now, many images that you use in
your application will have
effects like shadows or glows.
And when you're lining up
these images with other images,
you generally don't want them to
line up based on these shadows.
Instead,
you probably want them to line up
with the main edges of the control.
And in iOS 6, we have a new method
that makes that easier.
Image with alignment-wrecked insets.
You pass this to an image to specify
insets that should be used for
purposes of laying out that image.
And this uses the same edge
insets input as resizable images
that we talked about earlier.
And in fact, you can even use these two
methods together to create images
that are both resizable and that
have alignment-wrecked insets.
For this example image,
we could use alignment
rect insets like this.
With the top inset of 0,
a left inset of 1, bottom of 3,
and right of 1.
This image was then lay
out exactly as we intended.
Now, our application includes
this custom lock button.
And the image for this is pretty small,
which makes it kind of hard to tap.
In fact,
the human interface guidelines say
that the minimum size of tappable
elements should be 44 by 44 points.
And our button is smaller than that.
But there's a technique that we can
use to make its effective area larger,
and that's the
PointInsideWithEvent method.
This is a method on UIView that
gets called for all views when an
event comes in to determine whether
that view should get the event.
The default implementation of UIView
just returns whether that point
is within the bounds of the view.
But we can create a UIButton
subclass and override this method.
In our--what we override,
we'll just specify a larger
region with a size of 44 by 44,
and then we'll return whether the
point is in this larger region.
This way, if a touch comes in that's
outside of the button's bounds
but inside of the larger region,
our button will still get the event.
However,
one thing to keep in mind when using
this technique is that this larger
boundary is actually invisible.
So it's easy to accidentally align other
views to overlap this invisible region.
And if you did this,
you'd get unpredictable touch handling.
So it's best to avoid this
and make sure that all of your
views have large enough margins.
As you're customizing your application,
please try to use standard
UIKit controls whenever possible.
As you'll see today,
they're very customizable.
So even if you want a very custom look,
you can still use default
controls and customize them.
You don't need to create
your own new button class
just to get a different look.
You also get the standard behaviors
when you use the standard controls.
This way, your controls will behave
like all of the rest of iOS,
which will make your app more predictable
and easier to use for your customers.
And finally, we're improving the
system with every release.
And so if you use standard controls,
you'll get all of these
improvements for free,
instead of having to always work
to keep your control up to date
with new additions and changes.
Now, as you're customizing your controls,
it's generally a good idea to
customize all parts of the control.
For example, with this segmented control,
we wouldn't want to customize
just the background image
but not the divider images.
Here, I've just set a custom
background but left the divider
images as the default blue,
which doesn't look great.
Instead,
if we customize all of the images,
we'll get a much more consistent look.
Now, if you and your application wanted
to use a standard UIKit control but
show it in a different orientation,
like a vertical slider,
this is actually something
that's very easy to do today.
UI view has a transform
property and you can set that
transform to whatever you want.
So for a vertical slider like this,
we would set an affine transform
that has a rotation of half pi.
And this is in radians and is
the equivalent of 90 degrees.
If you've forgotten all of this geometry,
you might need to go back to your high
school geometry book to do some review.
One really easy way to get a
very custom appearance in your
application is with tint color.
Most controls in UIKit have a tint
color property that allows you to
recolor them in whatever color you want.
In fact, some controls even have multiple
tint colors that you can set.
And this allows you to heavily customize
your application without having to
create any custom artwork yourself.
So it's a really great
way to get a custom look.
And we have an example of
this also in the sample code.
As you're customizing your application,
it can be kind of tedious to have
to send methods to each individual
control that you want to customize.
In iOS 5,
we introduced a new way that you can
customize all of your controls at once.
To do this, instead of sending the method
to an individual control,
send it to the appearance proxy that's
returned by that control's class.
Then, when you send the method,
all of the controls of that
class will be customized.
And one way that you can make it easier
to do this is to cast the appearance
proxy that's returned as an instance
of the class that it's representing.
So for the case of a slider,
we would cast it as a UISlider instance.
This way, we'll get build time warnings
if we try to send it any methods
that it doesn't respond to.
And one thing to keep in mind
when using the appearance proxy
is that customizations only
happen for a given control when
it's first added to its window.
So if you already have a control
that's visible and you send
appearance proxy methods afterwards,
the control will not get updated.
Because of this,
it's generally best to do all your
appearance proxy customization
early in your application,
generally at application launch time.
And if you want to learn more about
appearance proxy customization,
you can watch last year's talk,
Customizing the Appearance
of UIKit Controls,
which is available on video.
You may have noticed that the
silver default style status
bar has been replaced in iOS
6 by this new blue status bar.
In fact,
some people have noticed this and
have had very strong reactions.
But this is not actually just
a blue static status bar.
It actually matches the color of
the top navigation bar that's shown.
For a blue default navigation bar,
we'll show a blue status bar.
But if you have a tint color
on your navigation bar,
then we'll actually match the status
bar to that navigation bar's tint color.
And we'll even do this if you
have a custom background image
for your navigation bar or a
custom subclass of navigation bar.
However, this tinting of the status
bar only happens on iPhone.
It doesn't happen on iPad.
It also only happens when
you use the status bar style
UI status bar style default.
For the black opaque and black
transparent status bar styles,
these look as they always have.
Now, if your application uses one
of these tinted status bars,
then you should tell the system
about what kind of a navigation bar
you have so that at launch time,
we can match the animation
of your application.
And this is similar to
how default.pngs work,
where before your
application has launched,
the system doesn't know what to show,
so you provide a default.png image.
To provide the kind of
navigation bar you have,
you just need to add an
entry to your Info.plist.
And this entry should be called
UI Status Bar Tint Parameters.
Inside of that,
you'll add a dictionary with
the key UINavigationBar.
Then you just need to specify
the style of your navigation bar,
whether it's translucent,
and its tint color, if it has one.
Once you've got this set
up in your Info.plist,
the system will match the
status bar style at launch time.
Another appearance change in iOS
6 is that we now show shadows
beneath the navigation bars,
toolbars, and tab bars.
This is a pretty subtle effect,
so I've kind of increased the contrast
here so you can better see it.
Now, this effect happens in your
application automatically.
There's nothing that you
need to do to opt into it.
However, there are a few things to keep
in mind about these new shadows.
For this navigation bar,
here are its bounds,
and here is where the shadow appears.
As you can see,
the shadow actually extends beyond
the bounds of the navigation bar and
into the area of the content below.
And this means that if your
content view is above the
navigation bar in its hierarchy,
the content will actually
cover up the shadow,
making it invisible.
So always make sure that your bars
are on top of their content area
so that their shadow is visible.
If you still notice that your
navigation bar's shadow is invisible,
then check that its ClipSubviews
property is turned off.
If ClipSubviews is turned on,
then the shadow will be clipped
to the navigation bar's bounds,
which again will make it invisible.
If you create your navigation
bar in Interface Builder,
then you can change the
ClipSubviews property here
in the Attributes Inspector.
If you use custom navigation bar
subclasses or toolbar subclasses,
then we have an easy way that will make
it easier for your application to use
these with UI Navigation Controller.
The new method,
initWithNavigationBarClass, ToolbarClass,
allows you to create a navigation
controller that has your custom
subclasses already ready to use.
This is new in iOS 6,
but the great thing is it's
available back to iOS 5.
So if you use the iOS 6 SDK,
you can still use this even if your
deployment target goes back to 5.0.
Now let's talk about customizing
some specific UIKit controls.
We'll start with buttons.
Buttons are pretty easy to customize.
First, you should remember what
we talked about earlier,
to separate out the
foreground and the background.
And also,
we should use resizable images for
the background whenever possible.
Using resizable images makes it so that
your images are smaller and also allows
you to reuse them in different buttons,
even if those buttons
have different sizes.
For the background,
we can use the setBackgroundImageForState
method to set the background image.
And for the foreground,
we can either use setImageForState
or setTitleForState.
And again,
setting the title as text instead of
an image is better for localization
and accessibility in your application.
Now, these methods introduce
the new state per input,
and this allows you to customize
the control differently
for its different states.
The possible values you can use here are
Normal for the default state of control,
Highlighted for while the
button is being tapped,
disabled for when the
control can't be used,
and selected for toggleable
or selectable elements,
like UI Segmented Control.
These are the custom images
that we're using for our custom
button in the example code.
And when you're setting your own
custom images for your controls,
it's always good to at least
set the normal state's value.
If you only set the normal state and
don't set any of the other states,
then we'll use the normal state's
value and modify that for the
different states as necessary.
Also, these control states are not
actually mutually exclusive.
So, for example,
you could set a different
image for while a control is
both highlighted and selected.
And to do this, just use bitwise or to
combine the states together.
Segmented controls are
very similar to buttons,
but they can have multiple sections.
Here is the custom segmented control
that we use in the example application.
And here are the
components that make it up.
Once again,
there's a background image that we'll
use a resizable image for so that it can
stretch to whatever size is necessary.
And for segmented controls,
if you don't use an image
that's already resizable,
then we'll make it resizable
for you by assuming a center
region of one point and using the
rest as left and right end caps.
Also, for segmented controls,
it's generally a good idea to set
at least the normal and selected
values for the background image
so that the currently selected
segment will look different
visually from all of the others.
There's also a divider image
that's shown in the middle
between two different segments.
And we can set custom
images for that as well.
And notice that the custom
image method for this allows
us to set different images for
different left and right states.
And these are for the states
of the two segments on the left
and right of a given divider.
Steppers are a control that
we introduced in iOS 5.
And in iOS 6,
we're adding a lot of customization
options to them as well.
Here are the components
of our custom stepper.
In the foreground,
there's a decrement and
increment image that we can set.
And in the background,
there's a divider image and a
background image that are customized
very similarly to segmented controls.
Sliders are very simple,
easy to use controls,
but they also have a lot of
available customizability.
For example, here is a default slider.
And here's the custom slider
that we used in our application.
As you can see, it's very different,
and here are the elements
that make up those changes.
On the left and right
sides of the slider,
there's a minimum and
maximum value image.
The images that you use here
should represent the property
that the slider is changing.
In the case of our application,
this slider controls the
speed of the spaceship.
So we're using images that represent
the spaceship going slow and fast.
There's also a thumb image that
goes in the center of the slider,
and that can be customized as well.
Finally, there are track images that are
shown at the back of the slider,
and these can be customized
for the minimum on the left
and the maximum on the right.
Once again,
you should use resizable images
for these since they'll be shown
at different widths depending
on the value of the slider.
Progress views show the status of an
ongoing operation in your application.
Here is a custom slider view that
we used in the example application
and here are its components.
There's a track image at the back
and a progress image in the front.
The track image is drawn across the
entire width of the progress view,
whereas the progress image is drawn
just in the section that's completed
and is put on top of the track image.
Note that this is a different
behavior than sliders,
where for sliders only half is drawn
in each different custom image.
Once again, with progress views,
it's good to use resizable images
so that your image can be redrawn to
whatever width is necessary for the
current state of the progress view.
Switches are a very
basic control in UIKit,
but even they have a lot of
customizability available.
In iOS 5,
we introduced the On Tint Color property,
and this allows you to set the
color of the on part of the switch.
In iOS 6, we're adding even more options.
You can now set a Thumb Tint Color,
which affects just the
color of the center thumb,
and you can set a Tint Color,
which affects both the thumb's color and
the color of the off part of the switch.
And of course,
you can combine all of these colors
however you want to create exactly
the appearance that you want.
We're also adding methods to set
custom images for your switch.
This lets you set a custom image for
the on and off part of the switch.
But it's a good idea to keep these
images at 77 by 27 points or smaller
so that they fit within the switch.
Next, let's talk about customizing the
navigation bar for our application.
Navigation bars are a common
element in many iOS applications,
and there's a lot that we
can do to customize them.
We'll start with the background image.
Once again, notice that the background
image is separate from the
text and all of the buttons.
Again,
this allows for better reusability and
better localization and accessibility.
Also, instead of drawing the
entire background image,
we'll use a smaller, resizable image,
as usual.
Once we have this smaller image,
we can use the setBackgroundImage
for bar metrics method to set
this for the navigation bar.
Notice that there's a new
parameter here for bar metrics.
Bar metrics specify the
different types of bar heights.
For example, the default is shown
in portrait on iPhone,
and this has a height of 44 points.
On landscape on iPhone,
we decrease the height of the
navigation bars to 32 points,
and this is represented by the
landscape phone bar metrics.
And as its name implies,
this doesn't happen on iPad.
On iPad, all navigation bars have
a height of 44 points.
Amen.
So using bar metrics,
we can set different custom
background images for each of
these different bar metrics.
When you're setting your image,
if you use an image that's taller
than the height of the bar,
which is 44 in default
and 32 in landscape,
then we won't clip it to
the height of the bar,
but we'll actually show the full
height of the image you set.
And this allows you to set a larger image
that will extend into the content below,
so you can provide your own shadow as
part of the custom background image.
And if you do this,
then we'll turn off the new shadows
that we add in iOS 6 so that they don't
interfere with the shadow that you're
providing in the background image.
And speaking of shadows,
we can also customize the new
shadows that were added in iOS 6.
To do so, just use NavigationBar's
setShadowImage method,
and you can set the image
that you want to use.
This is the custom image that we
used in our sample application.
You can't see it there?
It's right here.
It's very small because this
should be a very subtle effect.
The shadow is generally just
a very -- a few points tall,
and we can use a one-point wide image
because since it's the same across the
entire width of the navigation bar,
we don't need to provide
the entire width.
We can just use a one-point wide image,
and it'll be tiled or stretched.
Now that we've customized the background,
the default text that's shown there
doesn't really match very well.
But we can customize the
appearance of that text as well.
To do so,
we can just set a dictionary for
the bar's title text attributes.
Title text attributes allows
us to set custom fonts,
colors, and shadows for the text that's
shown in the navigation bar.
And this technique is used in many
other UIKit controls as well to set
a dictionary of text attributes to
customize the text that's shown.
So we've now customized the
navigation bar's background image,
its shadow image, and its title.
The only parts remaining are
the two buttons that are shown.
And these are represented
by UI bar button items.
will start customizing the bar
button item with its background.
And as usual, we'll use a resizable
image for the background.
If you don't use a resizable image
for your bar button item's background,
then we'll make it resizable for
you once again by using -- assuming
a center region of one point and
the rest as left and right end caps.
Just like with the background
of the navigation bar itself,
we'll use a different image for
the background in landscape.
Now,
the images you use for the background
images for bar button items should
generally be 30 points tall for the
default bar metrics and 24 points
tall for the landscape bar metrics.
Once you have your images,
you can set them with the method
setBackgroundImage for state bar metrics.
And this is how we can set
these two background images
for our bar button items.
If your bars include done style buttons
in addition to bordered style buttons,
then you may want to set
different background images for
the two types of buttons so that
they look visually different.
In iOS 5,
you could do that by setting manually
a different background image on
each of these two types of buttons.
But if you use the appearance proxy
to customize all of the background
images for your bar button items,
then the same background image
would be used for the bordered
style and done style buttons.
In iOS 6, we're introducing a method
to make this easier.
This new method allows you to set
a background image and specify
a style so that you can have
different background images for
the bordered and done button items,
even if you use the appearance proxy.
Next, we'll customize the back button.
Once again,
this is just a UI bar button item,
and we can customize this by
using the different method
setBackButtonBackgroundImage.
Again, we'll use a resizable image,
and this time we'll use
asymmetric cap insets for the
asymmetric image that we have.
Now, when you have all of your images,
depending on your design,
you may want to customize the
positioning of the different elements
that are shown in your navigation bar.
And there's lots of properties
that you can use to do that.
For the text's position,
you can use these three properties
to set the positioning of
the back button items text,
the main title text,
and the text for normal bar button items.
If you want to change the
positioning of the backgrounds for
the different bar button items,
you can use these two properties.
And finally, if you have images for
your bar button items,
then you can also customize
their positions using the
image insets property.
Now, toolbars are customized very
similarly to navigation bars.
Once again,
we can set a custom background
image and a custom shadow image.
And these follow all of the same rules
as their equivalents for navigation bars.
The only difference is that for toolbars,
the shadow will extend up into the
content instead of down into the
content as with navigation bars.
Toolbars also use the same UI bar
button items as navigation bars,
and these can be customized in the
same way that we talked about earlier.
However, for toolbars,
you can also use plain
style bar button items.
These are using the UI bar
button item style plain type,
and they look like this.
And if you want to use a custom image
for your plain style bar button item,
all you have to do is create a simple
monochrome image like this one.
These images are drawn as a
stencil and the colors in the
image are actually ignored.
So, for example, for this image,
the black will be ignored and the
image will be colored as white.
And then the shadow etched effect
that you can see in the toolbar
when the image is used will be
applied for you by the toolbar.
So you don't need to include
this in your artwork.
You can also use the tint color of
both the toolbar and the bar button
item to change the colorization
that happens for your custom image.
Now, search bars always include a search
field at the top and can optionally
include a search bar beneath that.
And search bars can be
heavily customized as well.
If we separate out the components,
you can better see which
parts can be customized.
You can set a custom background
image that's shown behind.
Also, a custom background image
for the search field itself,
which is drawn on top of the
entire search bar background.
And finally,
you can customize the different icons
that are shown within the search field,
like this magnifying glass icon.
Now, the cancel button itself does not
have a direct way to customize it,
but it's represented by
a UI bar button item.
And this means that you can use
UI bar button item appearance proxy
customization to customize it just
like other UI bar button items.
If you have a scope
bar in your search bar,
then you can also customize that.
There's a different background
image for the scope bar,
and the scope bar also has a
background image and divider
images that can be customized in
the same way as segmented controls.
This is what our customized
search bar looks like when you
put the pieces back together.
Tab bars are a very complex control
that have a lot of different parts.
Here's a standard tab bar
and here are its components.
As you can see,
you can customize the tab bar
both with the UI tab bar itself
and with the UI tab bar items
that appear inside of the tab bar.
On the tab bar,
there's a background image and a shadow
image that behave in the same way as
the other bars that we've talked about.
And there's also a
selection indicator image.
This image is drawn in front of
the background of the tab bar and
behind the currently selected tab.
In the tab bar Items,
there's an image and title
that represent the item,
and there's also title text
attributes that you can use to
change how the title is drawn.
Here are the custom images that we
use in our sample apps custom tab bar.
As you can see, we've customized all of
the images for the tab bar,
and we're also using different custom
images for the tab bar's items.
Also,
you may notice that none of the images,
the custom images that we used,
include any of the text.
And also, each of these images is
separate from each other.
We're not mixing them together.
When we put these back together,
this is the final tab bar that we get.
Now, whenever you create a tab bar item,
it should have an image
that represents it.
These images should be just
simple monochrome stencil images,
just like the plain style toolbar
items that we talked about earlier.
And this plain stencil image will
be drawn as gray when the tab bar
item is unselected and will be
shown with a glowing blue when
the tab bar item is selected.
Again,
you can use the tab bar's tint color
or selected image tint color to
change the colorization that occurs.
But if you don't like this
default appearance and don't want
to use it in your application,
you can also set fully custom images
that are used as is in the tab bar
without any effects applied to them.
That's what we did in our custom
tab bar in the application,
and these are the images that we used.
Notice that the unselected
images have an inner shadow,
and the selected images have a
metallic gradient that's different
from the standard blue glowing look.
To set these kinds of images,
you can use Set the Finished Images
for the tab bar item.
The word "finished" here means
that these images should have all
effects already included in them.
We won't add any colorization
or shadows or glows to them,
so you should include any effects that
you want inside of your custom artwork.
Also, notice that you have to set both
the selected and unselected images
when you're using this method.
And this is to make sure that the
two images will match each other.
Once you've set these,
the images you set will be
used directly in the tab bar.
Table views are a very complex topic and
we could probably spend an entire session
just talking about how to customize them.
So we'll just talk about a few
different small topics today.
If you're customizing a
group style table view,
then you may want to change its
background image from the default
background so that it better
matches the content that you show.
To do so,
you can use the setBackgroundView
method on TableView.
This allows you to set any kind of
UI view you want as the background that
will be shown behind the TableView.
In the sample application,
we've just used a basic image view
with a tiled image as its contents.
Another common item to customize is the
headers that are shown in table views.
And in iOS 6, we're introducing a new
class to make that easier.
The UI table view header footer view is
the class that we use for the default
headers that are shown in table views.
And with this class,
you can now -- it makes it easier
to do small changes to the headers.
So, for example,
in the sample application,
we use the standard headers,
but we just slightly change
its text color to better
match the rest of our content.
And finally,
remember that tables include cells
and headers that are just views,
so you can always add whatever
custom controls or views you want
to them to do any customization
you want of your table view.
All right, now that we've customized
all of the different parts,
let's see how it looks like when it's all
put together in the sample application.
As you can see, our application now has a
fully metallic theme to it.
It has a custom navigation bar,
including the bar button item,
and it also has a new status bar
color that matches the navigation bar.
We also have our fully
customized tab bar,
including a different appearance for
both the selected and unselected tabs.
We also now have our custom button,
including all of the different states.
And we have our custom progress view.
We can also see the customized segmented
control that matches the navigation bar.
And for the lock button,
if I click just a little
bit outside of its bounds,
you can see that it's still
toggled because we're using the
technique point inside with event
that I talked about earlier.
Also, all of the controls and the
background image that's shown
behind them are now customized here.
And finally, in the Logs view,
we have a customized toolbar and
our fully customized search bar.
And this sample application is
actually available for you to
download from the WWDC website.
Just go to the webpage for this
talk and you can download it.
So that's great,
but how does all of this actually
work in a real shipping application?
Well, we have Scott Lopatin from
Find My Friends here to talk about
how they used customization to
customize their app's appearance.
Scott?
Thank you, Jacob.
You'll never believe it,
but Find My Friends uses a ton
of appearance customization.
Today I'm going to give you an overview,
a quick overview of the
Find My Friends skin look,
how we used code organization to put
all of our skinning code into one place,
and then I'm going to cover some specific
UI elements and how we skin those.
If you haven't seen on
Monday on the developer site,
we actually released beta
2 of Find My Friends,
which includes some great new features.
One is this new friends tab,
which includes a split map and
friend list on the main screen.
An easy way to find your nearby friends.
And an industry-first feature which
lets you set geofences on yourself
or friends which fire notifications
that push to the other person.
As you can see, Find My Friends includes
this custom leather texture,
which looks great on a retina
display and especially the new iPad,
providing an amazing
immersive experience.
Let's take a look at that.
Now,
I know what you're probably thinking.
There's kind of some debate out there
as to whether this is actually a cool
design or if it's merely kind of a
-- somewhat of a skewed distraction.
But in any case,
The application, once you skin it and
provide a custom theme,
lets it easily stand out amongst
the many different applications
out there on the App Store.
And that's probably why
you came to this talk.
The UI isn't exactly lickable,
but it's kind of alive.
So when we set up to
make Find My Friends,
we wanted every single background,
texture, button, selected state,
unselected state,
everything completely custom.
This is a ton of images,
especially when you consider
buttons have control states
and you have 1X and 2X images.
So how are we going to organize all this
custom theming code in our application?
Well, we're going to do it with a theme.
This theme lets us organize
our code into a certain place,
and I'm going to show you how to
do that in our next part of the
talk with code organization tips.
Our theme all started with a protocol.
Think of this protocol as a catalog.
of all the different colors, images,
and fonts used throughout
your application.
Notice we didn't refer to the colors as
like the red color or the blue color,
but merely as their usage
within the application.
You'll also note that to
get an immersive theme,
you don't have to pick
20 different colors.
Just a few basic colors that kind of
go together will get you very far.
Now that we've defined
this theme protocol,
we can implement it in
many different ways.
The sample application
uses the same method,
and that's how Jacob switched between the
two themes with just one line of code.
So now we're providing a leather theme,
but you can implement any other
different kind of theme you want based
on user selection or A/B testing when
you're developing your application
to show off different aspects that
you might be playing with on the side.
This theme class can also do some
work to return the current theme,
let's say, and then anywhere in your
code you can just say theme,
current theme,
get me those images or colors, fonts,
whatever,
used throughout your application.
Now, we have a ton of custom buttons
used throughout the application,
and we could have made
subclasses for all these,
but instead we did something
a little bit different.
First...
We made an enumeration
of all our button types.
An add button, a refresh button,
any different types.
And then we use these types when
we're making our new buttons.
So anywhere in our code,
here we're creating a new button.
And immediately we're saying theme
button with type from our current theme.
In our theme class,
we're defining this method,
themeButtonWithType.
And then we can check in this method,
okay, here is the leather button types.
Let's pull out from the theme
our current background image
and set this for the button.
A little trick we used also is to add
the state into this theme button method.
So if we do button image for state,
we have one method to get all of
the images for this button and that
method will pick out from which
state to return the proper image.
That's reducing the number
of methods on our theme file.
You'll probably notice that a
lot of your buttons have probably
the same different styles,
maybe the same font color,
the same shadow.
So set all these first and
then override at probably the
bottom where these differ.
And you'll probably find that
these are pretty small differences.
Sleep better at night knowing that
the right images are going to the
right control state by this trick
of naming the images after the
control state used in your button.
Saves a lot of hair loss.
So to overview,
our theme class defines this protocol,
this list of all our images, fonts,
and colors.
We have enumerations of
styles of each type of object,
buttons or different objects.
and the main theming methods,
this one line of code we can add
after creating any of our objects
anywhere in the code to theme.
Then the concrete implementations of
that protocol can just know how to
do the work of finding those images,
fonts, and colors.
At the end of the day,
You have this one line of code that
wherever you are in your application,
whenever you're creating a
new button or a new object,
you can say, yeah, just theme this,
and the theme files will do all the work.
Another huge benefit is when
you're working with designers,
you have one place to go to say, oh, yes,
I am using the right color or the right
shadow offset or the right shadow color.
Now I'm going to talk about some
specific examples of how we skin some
of our UI elements in Find My Friends.
I'm going to talk about
the navigation bar.
Our new tab bar in 2.0.
Sand stitching, you'll notice.
And the segmented controls.
Starting with the navigation bar,
when we make a navigation controller,
we're pulling out the navigation bar and
calling that one line of code to theme,
theme nav bar with style.
Then we can go through and do the
work such as pulling out a background
image from our current theme,
whatever that current theme is
that the theme class manages,
and setting that set background
image for bar metrics.
For our bar button items,
we're using appearance when contained
in UI Navigation Controller.
And that's because our toolbars
also have bar button items,
but they might have a
different kind of custom style,
which we don't want to overlap
with the navigation bars.
Since our navigation bars have the
same background image in this case,
we're using appearance when contained
in UI Navigation Controller.
And this is defined in the theme method
where we're theming the navigation bar.
Even though we're theming
the navigation bar,
we can also apply these appearance
proxies for everything related
to those navigation bars.
Our background images are nine-part
images with UI Edge insets.
If these edge insets differ
depending on your theme,
you can always have the theme also
return edge insets if you'd like.
And then we define the image with
resizable image with cap insets.
Little trick we used is this
custom leather texture navigation
bar background has a texture.
So you can use the alpha channel of
the background images for the bar
button items to let the texture shine
through so you don't have any problems
matching up textures or wasting bits
in your application of extra texture.
Finally,
styling text with the text -- title
text attributes that Jacob mentioned.
A dictionary containing the font,
text color, shadow color,
and shadow offset used
in the bar button items.
Again, we're using the appearance proxy,
appearance when contained
in in this case as well.
So what we're left with is this main one
line of code where we create a navigation
controller and say theme nav bar.
And all the aspects of this navigation
bar are themed with one line of code
from wherever we are in our application.
Moving on to tab bars,
done similarly with a
set background image.
We'll probably create a theme tab bar
in our theme class and we do some work
like setting the background image.
We use finished images for our tab bar,
so for the items when we create them,
we're setting finished selected
and finished unselected images.
And you'll notice we're actually
using the same method in our theme
class to pull out those images,
just set it in Boolean whether
they're finished or not,
providing -- so then you can look
in one place to see what images are
actually being returned in this case.
Our selection indicator image set on the
tab bar is somewhat translucent as well,
providing that texture to shine
through even when an item is selected.
And you'll notice
I didn't mention the text,
and that's because when your
tab bar items are created,
pull out a localized string from your
localized strings file and set init
with title with that localized string.
To style that text,
use our familiar title text
attributes to set the font,
text color, shadow color,
and shadow offset.
In this case,
we used the main appearance proxy,
not when contained in,
because we have one tab
bar in our application.
And even if we had more,
they'd probably look the same,
so we're just going to set it
for all the tab bar items used.
Finally, segmented controls.
We have a few different types of
segmented controls in the application.
There's a bunch of different parts,
but really it boils
down to three API calls:
setBackgroundImage, setDividerImage,
and setTitleTextAttributes.
For background image,
we have one method defined in our
theme where we pass through the control
state and set these for the normal,
selected, highlighted,
and disabled states on our segment.
These are, again,
nine-part images using UI Edge insets.
The segmented control knows,
depending on the position of the button
or the background image in the segment,
where to slice off the edges to stretch
and make the proper size button.
So in this case,
the selected is on the left
and it's chopped off the right
side of the UI Edge inset.
For divider images, as Jacob mentioned,
you can have different divider
images depending on if the left is
selected or if the right is selected.
And you can pull out different
images for all of these.
In our case, though,
we have the same image no
matter if the left is selected
or the right is selected,
so we just do one call with
one image for the normal state,
and all the other states are picked
up as this is the lowest level.
Finally,
those familiar title text attributes
to style the text on the segment
not drawn as background images
into the segment to control.
Setting the font, text color,
shadow color, and shadow offset.
So today I went through an overview
of the Find My Friends skin look,
getting far with an immersive experience
and not using tons of different colors,
showed you some code organization
tips of how you can organize your
code with a theming protocol.
The sample code provided with the
session uses this as we've done.
And then I covered some specific
UI elements and how we skin
those in Find My Friends.
Back to Jacob.
Thanks, Scott.
So today we saw some general tips
when customizing your application,
including some of the new appearance
changes in iOS 6 and how to use
resizable images to make your
images smaller and more reusable.
We saw some specific details about
customizing different UIKit controls,
including how to prepare your artwork and
how to separate the different elements
inside of a control to best customize it.
And finally,
we heard from Scott about how
Find My Friends customized
their appearance,
including how they achieved their
skin look and also how you can use
themes to organize and maintain your
custom artwork and your customizations.
If you want more information,
you can contact Jake Behrens.
And please remember to go to the
WWDC website to download our sample
code so you can check out all of the
techniques that we talked about today.
There are a few related sessions
that you might be interested in.
What's New in Cocoa Touch and
Introduction to
Auto Layout are already over,
but you'll be able to
watch the videos for those.
And Introduction to Attributed
Strings is later today,
and that'll tell you about how you
can do even more customization of the
text that's shown in your application.